documentclass{article}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

\title{Moravec’s paradox}

\date{July 27 2021}

\begin{document}

\maketitle
Moravec’s paradox is the observation by artificial intelligence and robotics
researchers that, contrary to traditional assumptions, reasoning requires very
little computation, but sensorimotor skills require enormous computational resources. The principle was articulated by Hans Moravec, Rodney Brooks, Marvin Minsky.that is according to moravec its is easy to make computer exhibit
adult level performance on intelligence tests or playing checkers, and difficult or
impossible to give them the skills of a one-year-old when it comes to perception
and mobility”



One possible explanation of the paradox, offered by Moravec, is based on evolution. All human skills are implemented biologically, using machinery designed
by the process of natural selection. In the course of their evolution, natural
selection has tended to preserve design improvements and optimizations. The
older a skill is, the more time natural selection has had to improve the design.
Abstract thought developed only very recently, and consequently, we should not
expect its implementation to be particularly efficient.
that is in simple way we can say that Some examples of skills that have been
evolving for millions of years: recognizing a face, moving around in space, judging people’s motivations, catching a ball, recognizing a voice, setting appropriate
goals, paying attention to things that are interesting; anything to do with perception, attention, visualization, motor skills, social skills and so on.
Some examples of skills that have appeared more recently: mathematics,
engineering, games, logic and scientific reasoning. These are hard for us because
they are not what our bodies and brains were primarily evolved to do. These are
skills and techniques that were acquired recently, in historical time, and have
had at most a few thousand years to be refined, mostly by cultural evolution.
1


\end{document}
